# Using Logistic Regression to Predict Hospital Patient Readmittance
<p align="justify">The high readmission level of hospital patients after they are discharged from the hospital is a significant concern for the US health care system. It is estimated that 20% of all hospitalized Medicare patients are readmitted within 30 days of hospitalization and 34% are readmitted within 90 days. The estimated cost of hospital readmissions is about $17.4 billion annually. To address the problem, the 2010 Affordable Care Act established a hospital readmissions reduction program (HRRP). The program created financial incentives for hospitals to reduce readmissions by linking Medicare reimbursements to a hospital’s risk-adjusted readmission rate. For 2012, penalties could be as much 1% of the total reimbursements a hospital received for the three target conditions. In the first year of the program, 2,225 hospitals were subject to reduced payment penalties, with penalties totaling $225 million nationwide. The maximum penalties were set to increase to 3% of reimbursements by 2014. This project studies the hospitals readmission rate and the costs associated with the Medicare penalties. The paper also considers a CareTracker program that aims to help paitents post care and reduce readmission rates in order to reduce Medicare penalties. A logistic regression model is applied to determine the best possible threshold, based on patient readmittence probabiloty, to apply when deciding to offer the CareTracker program or not.</p>
